Versioning and support documentation (#1222)
dapr/docs: daprdocs/content/en/operations/support/support-versioning.md

---
type: docs
title: "Versioning policy"
linkTitle: "Versioning "

> weight: 200

Reviewer: 2000

Author: changed

## Versioning
Versioning is the process of assigning either unique version names or unique version numbers to unique states of computer software. 
- Versioning provides compatibility, explicit change control and handling changes, in particular breaking changes.
- Dapr strives to be backwards compatible. If a breaking change is needed it’ll be [announced in advance]({{< ref "support-release-policy#feature-and-deprecations" >}}).
- Deprecated features are done over multiple releases with both new and deprecated features working side-by-side.

Versioning refers to the following Dapr repos: dapr, CLI, stable language SDKs, dashboard, components-contrib, quickstarts, helm-charts and documentation.

Dapr has the following versioning schemes:
- Dapr `HTTP API` versioned with `MAJOR.MINOR` 
- Dapr `GRPC API` with `MAJOR`
- Releases (GitHub repositories including dapr, CLI, SDKs and Helm Chart) with `MAJOR.MINOR.PATCH`
- Documentation and Quickstarts repositories are versioned with the Dapr runtime repository versioning.

> - Dapr `Components` with `MAJOR` in component-config GitHub repositories.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Dapr `Components` with `MAJOR` in components-contrib GitHub repositories, used in component definition YAML.
```

Author: Fixed

Note that the Dapr APIs,  binaries releases (runtime, CLI, SDKs) and components are all independent from one another.

## Dapr API 
The Dapr HTTP API is versioned according to these [REST API guidelines](https://github.com/microsoft/api-guidelines/blob/vNext/Guidelines.md#71-url-structure). 

Based to the these guidelines; 
- A `MAJOR` version of the API is incremented when a deprecation is expected of the older version. Any such deprecation will be communicated and an upgrade path made available.
- A `MINOR` versions *may* be incremented for any other changes. For example a change to the JSON schema of the message sent to the API.
The definition of a breaking change to the API can be viewed [here](https://github.com/microsoft/api-guidelines/blob/vNext/Guidelines.md#123-definition-of-a-breaking-change).
- Experimental APIs include an “alpha” suffix to denote for their alpha status. For example v1.0alpha, v2.0alpha, etc.

## Dapr runtime 
Dapr releases use `MAJOR.MINOR.PATCH` versioning. For example 1.0.0. Read [Supported releases]({{< ref support-release-policy.md >}}) for more on the versioning of releases. 

## Helm Charts

> Helm charts are versioned with the Dapr runtime.

Reviewer: We should link to either the helm charts repo, or other docs on helm

Author: Done

## Language SDKs, CLI and dashboard
The Dapr language SDKs, CLI and dashboard are versioned independently from the Dapr runtime and can be released at different schedules. See this [table]({{< ref "support-release-policy#supported-versions" >}}) to show the compatibility between versions of the SDKs, CLI, dashboard and runtime. Each new release on the runtime lists the corresponding supported SDKs, CLI and Dashboard. 

SDKs, CLIs and Dashboard are versioning follows a `MAJOR.MINOR.PATCH` format. A major version is incremented when there’s a non-backwards compatible change in an SDK (for example, changing a parameter on a client method. A minor version is updated for new features and bug fixes and the patch version is incremented in case of bug or security hot fixes.

Samples and examples in SDKs version with that repo.

## Components

> Components are implemented in a component-contrib repository and follow a `MAJOR` versioning scheme. The version for components adheres to major versions (vX), as patches and non-breaking changes are added to the latest major version. The version is incremented when there’s a non-backwards compatible change in a component interface, for example, changing an existing method in the State Store interface.  

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Components are implemented in a components-contrib repository and follow a `MAJOR` versioning scheme. The version for components adheres to major versions (vX), as patches and non-breaking changes are added to the latest major version. The version is incremented when there’s a non-backwards compatible change in a component interface, for example, changing an existing method in the State Store interface.  
```

Author: fixed

- Version for the component implementation. The `.spec.version`

A component manifest includes the schema for an implementation in the `.spec.metadata` field, with the `.type` field denoting the implementation

See the comments in the example below:
```yaml
apiVersion: dapr.io/v1alpha1 # <-- This is the version of the component manifest
kind: Component
metadata:
  name: pubsub
spec:
  version: v1 # <-- This is the version of the pubsub.redis schema implementation
  type: pubsub.redis
  metadata:
  - name: redisHost
    value: redis-master:6379
  - name: redisPassword
    value: general-kenobi
```
### Component manifest version
The Component YAML manifest is versioned with `dapr.io/v1alpha1`. 

### Component implementation version
The version for a component implementation is determined by the `.spec.version` field as can be seen in the example above. The `.spec.version` field is mandatory in a schema instance and the component fails to load if this is not present. For the release of Dapr 1.0.0 all components are marked as `v1`.The component implementation version is incremented only for non-backward compatible changes.

### Component deprecations

> Deprecations of components will be announced two (2) releases ahead. After 2 releases, the component is unregistered from the Dapr runtime, and trying to load it issues a warning.

Reviewer 2: This is incorrect. If it is unregistered from the Dapr runtime, it will throw a fatal exception not a warning.

Author: Fixed to say fatal error
